11dit/programming/assessment.md, before:

---
title: 11DIT Programming Assessment
---

| Standard | Name | Level | Int/Ext | Credits |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [AS91883](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91883.pdf) | Develop a computer program | 1 | Internal | 4 |

# Explanation from the standard

## AS91883

| Achievement | Achievement with Merit | Achievement with Excellence |
| :-- | :-: | --: |
| Develop a computer program | Develop an informed computer program | Develop a refined computer program |

A computer program:

- uses variables storing at least two types of data (e.g. numeric, text, Boolean)
- uses sequence, selection and iteration control structures
- uses input from a user, sensors or another external source

It also uses one or more of:

- data stored in collections (e.g. lists, arrays, dictionaries)
- user-defined methods, functions or procedures

Example of ways of making a program **flexible and robust** include:

- using methods, functions, procedures, actions, conditions and control structures effectively
- checking input data for validity
- correctly handling expected, boundary and invalid values
- using constants, variables and derived values in place of literals

# Time allowance

All work must be done your own.

There will be regular submission check-ins to track your progress.
Your final submission is at the end of your last lesson on the school week ending Term 1.

There will be **NO** extensions.

# Task

Create a general knowledge quiz about a school subject of your choosing.

This quiz will be used as a study aid. For example, it could help you to remember:

- the elements of the Periodic table
- your multiplication tables
- basic phrases in another language
- important dates for historical events

## Requirements

1. welcome the user to the quiz. Make the topic clear to the user
2. the quiz will have **at least** 20 questions (you may add as many as you like)
3. when the player starts, they are asked 10 questions
4. each question has four answers each
5. only one question is correct — the others must be incorrect
6. when the answers are displayed, they must always be in random order
   - this is to prevent users from memorising the order
7. the user must be able to answer each question in some way
   - if you wish the user to type the answer:
      - you must give the user the point if they use the wrong case (upper, lower, etc.)
      - you do not need to give the user the point if they misspell it
   - if you wish the user to type a letter on number:
      - you must make it clear which letter/number matches which answer
8. when the quiz is finished, show the player their score
   1. give a big congratulations to the user on a perfect score
   2. give a small congratulations the player on a score between 7-9
   3. if a user scores 6 or fewer, tell them to try again
9.  ask the user if they would like to try again, and repeat the quiz if they wish

## Expected output

For this example, the quiz is only three questions long. Your quiz should be ten questions long.

```
Welcome to the Python Quiz!

QUESTION 1: What is the keyword used to define a function?
    1 - func
    2 - def
    3 - method
    4 - sub
Type the correct number: 2
Correct! You have 1 point.

QUESTION 2: What punctuation mark is placed at the end of an if statement?
    1 - full stop (.)
    2 - exclamation mark (!)
    3 - colon (:)
    4 - semi-colon (;)
Type the correct number: d
You must choose a number from 1 to 4. Please try again.

Type the correct number: 4
Incorrect! The correct answer was 3 - colon (:)
You have 1 point.

QUESTION 3: Which function is used to check the length of a list?
    1 - len()
    2 - count()
    3 - length()
    4 - duration()
Type the correct number: 1
Correct! You have 2 points.

You scored 2 out of 3! Well done!
Press y to play again: n

Thank you for playing.
```

# Required Resources

Along with your programming code, you **must** submit the following files with your assessment. Copies will be provided in the Teams assignment.

- [Authenticity Declaration](https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/11DIT499/ERmUd8VbMJtAl6DmKEb4K8IBr5gXE-b8F_FAcVODR-sssg?e=yGsSgl)
- [Testing Table document](https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/11DIT499/EdGUoaEYHq1FgklSh30Ka-UBo1Kvgww3rByGKQeDBNKCMQ?e=XEbPMp)

# Assessment Requirements

## Achieved

For Achieved, you must:

- store data in at least two types (text, number, boolean, etc.)
- use conditional statements and/or loops
- get input from the user
- test your program, in an organised way, to ensure the program works with expected cases

You must also:

- contain data in **at least TWO** collections (lists or dictionaries), **OR**
- define and use **at least TWO** functions

## Achieved with Merit

For Achieved with Merit, you must:

- follow conventions from the programming language
- test your program, in an organised way, to ensure the program works with both expected cases and relevant boundary cases

## Achieved with Excellence

For Achieved with Excellence, you must:

- ensure that your program is flexible and robust
  - it should reduce repeated code througout your program
  - it should use constants appropriately
  - it must behave in an expected manner
  - it must not crash
- test your program, in an organised way, to ensure the program works with expected and boundary cases, and correctly handles invalid cases

# Restrictions

You must:
- use a suitable, text-based programming language
  - You will be expected to use Python unless you have consulted with your teacher

You may:
- consult this website's notes
- consult your previous work

However, you may **not**:
- copy other students' work, even with modifications
- copy code online without proper attribution
- ask other students to fix errors for you
- present any content as your own work

# Submission

- Your work will be submitted through Microsoft Teams

Commit message:

Reword collections to lists, since 11DIT does not use dictionaries

11dit/programming/assessment.md, after:

---
title: 11DIT Programming Assessment
---

| Standard | Name | Level | Int/Ext | Credits |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [AS91883](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91883.pdf) | Develop a computer program | 1 | Internal | 4 |

# Explanation from the standard

## AS91883

| Achievement | Achievement with Merit | Achievement with Excellence |
| :-- | :-: | --: |
| Develop a computer program | Develop an informed computer program | Develop a refined computer program |

A computer program:

- uses variables storing at least two types of data (e.g. numeric, text, Boolean)
- uses sequence, selection and iteration control structures
- uses input from a user, sensors or another external source

It also uses one or more of:

- data stored in collections (e.g. lists, arrays, dictionaries)
- user-defined methods, functions or procedures

Example of ways of making a program **flexible and robust** include:

- using methods, functions, procedures, actions, conditions and control structures effectively
- checking input data for validity
- correctly handling expected, boundary and invalid values
- using constants, variables and derived values in place of literals

# Time allowance

All work must be done your own.

There will be regular submission check-ins to track your progress.
Your final submission is at the end of your last lesson on the school week ending Term 1.

There will be **NO** extensions.

# Task

Create a general knowledge quiz about a school subject of your choosing.

This quiz will be used as a study aid. For example, it could help you to remember:

- the elements of the Periodic table
- your multiplication tables
- basic phrases in another language
- important dates for historical events

## Requirements

1. welcome the user to the quiz. Make the topic clear to the user
2. the quiz will have **at least** 20 questions (you may add as many as you like)
3. when the player starts, they are asked 10 questions
4. each question has four answers each
5. only one question is correct — the others must be incorrect
6. when the answers are displayed, they must always be in random order
   - this is to prevent users from memorising the order
7. the user must be able to answer each question in some way
   - if you wish the user to type the answer:
      - you must give the user the point if they use the wrong case (upper, lower, etc.)
      - you do not need to give the user the point if they misspell it
   - if you wish the user to type a letter on number:
      - you must make it clear which letter/number matches which answer
8. when the quiz is finished, show the player their score
   1. give a big congratulations to the user on a perfect score
   2. give a small congratulations the player on a score between 7-9
   3. if a user scores 6 or fewer, tell them to try again
9.  ask the user if they would like to try again, and repeat the quiz if they wish

## Expected output

For this example, the quiz is only three questions long. Your quiz should be ten questions long.

```
Welcome to the Python Quiz!

QUESTION 1: What is the keyword used to define a function?
    1 - func
    2 - def
    3 - method
    4 - sub
Type the correct number: 2
Correct! You have 1 point.

QUESTION 2: What punctuation mark is placed at the end of an if statement?
    1 - full stop (.)
    2 - exclamation mark (!)
    3 - colon (:)
    4 - semi-colon (;)
Type the correct number: d
You must choose a number from 1 to 4. Please try again.

Type the correct number: 4
Incorrect! The correct answer was 3 - colon (:)
You have 1 point.

QUESTION 3: Which function is used to check the length of a list?
    1 - len()
    2 - count()
    3 - length()
    4 - duration()
Type the correct number: 1
Correct! You have 2 points.

You scored 2 out of 3! Well done!
Press y to play again: n

Thank you for playing.
```

# Required Resources

Along with your programming code, you **must** submit the following files with your assessment. Copies will be provided in the Teams assignment.

- [Authenticity Declaration](https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/11DIT499/ERmUd8VbMJtAl6DmKEb4K8IBr5gXE-b8F_FAcVODR-sssg?e=yGsSgl)
- [Testing Table document](https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/11DIT499/EdGUoaEYHq1FgklSh30Ka-UBo1Kvgww3rByGKQeDBNKCMQ?e=XEbPMp)

# Assessment Requirements

## Achieved

For Achieved, you must:

- store data in at least two types (text, number, boolean, etc.)
- use conditional statements and/or loops
- get input from the user
- test your program, in an organised way, to ensure the program works with expected cases

You must also:

- contain data in **at least TWO** lists, **OR**
- define and use **at least TWO** functions

You may use both lists and functions, but you must use **at least TWO** of one, the other, or both.

## Achieved with Merit

For Achieved with Merit, you must:

- follow conventions from the programming language
- test your program, in an organised way, to ensure the program works with both expected cases and relevant boundary cases

## Achieved with Excellence

For Achieved with Excellence, you must:

- ensure that your program is flexible and robust
  - it should reduce repeated code througout your program
  - it should use constants appropriately
  - it must behave in an expected manner
  - it must not crash
- test your program, in an organised way, to ensure the program works with expected and boundary cases, and correctly handles invalid cases

# Restrictions

You must:
- use a suitable, text-based programming language
  - You will be expected to use Python unless you have consulted with your teacher

You may:
- consult this website's notes
- consult your previous work

However, you may **not**:
- copy other students' work, even with modifications
- copy code online without proper attribution
- ask other students to fix errors for you
- present any content as your own work

# Submission

- Your work will be submitted through Microsoft Teams
