13dtc/projman/task.md, before:

---
title: Project Management task
---

| Standard | Name | Level | Int/Ext | Credits |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [AS91907](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91907.pdf) | Use complex processes to develop a digital technologies outcome | 3 | Internal | 6 |

# Explanation from the standard


| Achievement | Achievement with Merit | Achievement with Excellence |
| :-- | :-: | --: |
| Use complex processes to develop a digital technologies outcome | Use complex processes to develop an informed digital technologies outcome | Use complex processes to develop a refined digital technologies outcome |

Using complex processes involves:

- using **recognised** and appropriate project management tools and techniques to plan the **development** of a digital technologies outcome
- decomposing the outcome into smaller components
- trialling the components of the digital technologies outcome
- testing that the digital technologies outcome functions as intended
- **addressing** relevant implications

Examples of project management and version control tools and techniques include:

- agile or waterfall techniques
- project boards (kanban, scrum, etc.)
- version control software
- collaboration tools
- managing assets

Examples of relevant implications include:

- social
- cultural
- legal
- ethical
- intellectual property
- privacy
- accessibility
- usability
- functionality
- aesthetics
- sustainability and future proofing
- end-user considerations
- health and safety

# Time allowance

This is a project based assessment.

You will be allocated class time. You are encouraged to do additional work in your own time.

There will be regular project check-ins to track your progress.
Your final submission is at the end of your last lesson, Term 4 Week 5.

There will be **NO** extensions.

# Problem statement

> **Note**: if you plan to reassess for the programming standard, bear in mind your program must *also* meet the [requirements for AS91906](13dtc/programming/assessment_one.md#assessment-requirements). Our advice: use object-oriented programming techniques and create a graphical user interface.

You must create a program that addresses one of the following problem statements:

## Option 1: Uncertain reward test

Teach basic concepts of object-oriented programming in Python using a quiz with an "uncertain reward". In other words, it should contain an element of chance — the player could win something or lose something at each step.

### Requirements

1. the program will ask a series of questions about object-oriented programming. You will come up with these yourself
2. with each question, include a code snippet correctly formatted with syntax highlighting, etc.
3. the user will click on a button to answer the question
4. after each question, the program offers the user a chance to earn more points (i.e. an increasing multiplier, double points, or a Who Wants to be a Millionaire-style tier system)
5. if the user answers the next question correctly, they receive their uncertain reward
6. if the user answers incorrettly, they do not receive their reward or even lose points
7. at the end of the quiz, show the user their score and congratulate them appropriately

## Option 2: Find the Treasure

Teach an educational topic of your choice by developing a graphical adventure game.

Unlike option 1, which is a straight-forward quiz, you must create a scenario for this — adventuring to best a monster, solving a mystery, escaping from a dungeon, etc.

### Requirements

1. the game must include a 10x10 grid (or larger) to walk around
    - the grid tiles could represent locations
    - certain tiles could contain items/dangers
2. each turn, the user should be able to move a tile and/or perform an action at that tile
3. the game must include a stamina system
   - every few actions that the user takes should deplete the user's stamina
   - specific actions and/or items can replenish the user's stamina
   - if the user runs out of stamina, the game is over
4. the game must have a well-defined victory condition
   - what must happen for the game to be "won"?
   - what steps must occur for this to happen?
   - what could go wrong for the player?
5. how you integrate the object-oriented programming knowledge into the game is up to you, but it must be present and directly lead to the victory condition
   - for example, deciphering a clue could lead to the correct place on the map to find the next clue, and so on
   - if you are unsure, consult with your teacher

## Option 3: Other project

If you have an idea for a program you would like to build, please consult with your teacher for approval. The program should be:

1. should be completeable within the time frame we are working with
2. should not interfere with any other standards you are doing 

# Assessment Requirements

## Achieved

For Achieved, you must:

- use recognised and appropriate project management tools and techniques to plan the **development** of a digital technologies outcome
- decompose the outcome into smaller components
- trial the components of the digital technologies outcome
- test that the digital technologies outcome functions as intended
- address relevant implications

You must also demonstrate effective use of the following project management and version control techniques:

- use agile or waterfall techniques
- use a project board (kanban, scrum, etc.)
- use version control software
- use collaboration tools
- manage assets

## Achieved with Merit

For Achieved with Merit, you must:

- **effectively** use project management tools and techniques to manage
development, feedback and/or collaborative processes
- **effectively** trial multiple components and/or techniques
- **effectively** use information from testing and trialling to improve the functionality
of the digital technologies outcome.

## Achieved with Excellence

For Achieved with Excellence, you must:

- synthesise information gained from the planning, testing and trialling of
components
- discuss how this information led to the development of a high-quality digital
technologies outcome.

# Restrictions

You must:
- select one of the problem statements provided in this document

You may:
- consult this website's notes
- consult your previous work
- consult with other students for advice and ideas

However, you may **not**:
- copy other students' work, even with modifications
- copy code online without proper attribution
- ask other students to fix errors for you
- present any content that you did not create as your own work

# Submission

Submission will be completed on Teams.

Commit message:

Added links to portfolio document for 13dtc projman

13dtc/projman/task.md, after:

---
title: Project Management task
---

| Standard | Name | Level | Int/Ext | Credits |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [AS91907](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91907.pdf) | Use complex processes to develop a digital technologies outcome | 3 | Internal | 6 |

# Explanation from the standard


| Achievement | Achievement with Merit | Achievement with Excellence |
| :-- | :-: | --: |
| Use complex processes to develop a digital technologies outcome | Use complex processes to develop an informed digital technologies outcome | Use complex processes to develop a refined digital technologies outcome |

Using complex processes involves:

- using **recognised** and appropriate project management tools and techniques to plan the **development** of a digital technologies outcome
- decomposing the outcome into smaller components
- trialling the components of the digital technologies outcome
- testing that the digital technologies outcome functions as intended
- **addressing** relevant implications

Examples of project management and version control tools and techniques include:

- agile or waterfall techniques
- project boards (kanban, scrum, etc.)
- version control software
- collaboration tools
- managing assets

Examples of relevant implications include:

- social
- cultural
- legal
- ethical
- intellectual property
- privacy
- accessibility
- usability
- functionality
- aesthetics
- sustainability and future proofing
- end-user considerations
- health and safety

# Time allowance

This is a project based assessment.

You will be allocated class time. You are encouraged to do additional work in your own time.

There will be regular project check-ins to track your progress.
Your final submission is at the end of your last lesson, Term 4 Week 5.

There will be **NO** extensions.

# Problem statement

> **Note**: if you plan to reassess for the programming standard, bear in mind your program must *also* meet the [requirements for AS91906](13dtc/programming/assessment_one.md#assessment-requirements). Our advice: use object-oriented programming techniques and create a graphical user interface.

You must create a program that addresses one of the following problem statements:

## Option 1: Uncertain reward test

Teach basic concepts of object-oriented programming in Python using a quiz with an "uncertain reward". In other words, it should contain an element of chance — the player could win something or lose something at each step.

### Requirements

1. the program will ask a series of questions about object-oriented programming. You will come up with these yourself
2. with each question, include a code snippet correctly formatted with syntax highlighting, etc.
3. the user will click on a button to answer the question
4. after each question, the program offers the user a chance to earn more points (i.e. an increasing multiplier, double points, or a Who Wants to be a Millionaire-style tier system)
5. if the user answers the next question correctly, they receive their uncertain reward
6. if the user answers incorrettly, they do not receive their reward or even lose points
7. at the end of the quiz, show the user their score and congratulate them appropriately

## Option 2: Find the Treasure

Teach an educational topic of your choice by developing a graphical adventure game.

Unlike option 1, which is a straight-forward quiz, you must create a scenario for this — adventuring to best a monster, solving a mystery, escaping from a dungeon, etc.

### Requirements

1. the game must include a 10x10 grid (or larger) to walk around
    - the grid tiles could represent locations
    - certain tiles could contain items/dangers
2. each turn, the user should be able to move a tile and/or perform an action at that tile
3. the game must include a stamina system
   - every few actions that the user takes should deplete the user's stamina
   - specific actions and/or items can replenish the user's stamina
   - if the user runs out of stamina, the game is over
4. the game must have a well-defined victory condition
   - what must happen for the game to be "won"?
   - what steps must occur for this to happen?
   - what could go wrong for the player?
5. how you integrate the object-oriented programming knowledge into the game is up to you, but it must be present and directly lead to the victory condition
   - for example, deciphering a clue could lead to the correct place on the map to find the next clue, and so on
   - if you are unsure, consult with your teacher

## Option 3: Other project

If you have an idea for a program you would like to build, please consult with your teacher for approval. The program should be:

1. should be completeable within the time frame we are working with
2. should not interfere with any other standards you are doing 

# Assessment Requirements

## Achieved

For Achieved, you must:

- use recognised and appropriate project management tools and techniques to plan the **development** of a digital technologies outcome
- decompose the outcome into smaller components
- trial the components of the digital technologies outcome
- test that the digital technologies outcome functions as intended
- address relevant implications

You must also demonstrate effective use of the following project management and version control techniques:

- use agile or waterfall techniques
- use a project board (kanban, scrum, etc.)
- use version control software
- use collaboration tools
- manage assets

## Achieved with Merit

For Achieved with Merit, you must:

- **effectively** use project management tools and techniques to manage
development, feedback and/or collaborative processes
- **effectively** trial multiple components and/or techniques
- **effectively** use information from testing and trialling to improve the functionality
of the digital technologies outcome.

## Achieved with Excellence

For Achieved with Excellence, you must:

- synthesise information gained from the planning, testing and trialling of
components
- discuss how this information led to the development of a high-quality digital
technologies outcome.

# Restrictions

You must:
- select one of the problem statements provided in this document

You may:
- consult this website's notes
- consult your previous work
- consult with other students for advice and ideas

However, you may **not**:
- copy other students' work, even with modifications
- copy code online without proper attribution
- ask other students to fix errors for you
- present any content that you did not create as your own work

# Submission

Submission of the [portfolio](https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/13DTC2022/EdWbZ3IKuLNJjoh2zjxFDvwBkDvpfYGl6Dg7BFQeL1jEiw?e=1grUkx) will be completed on Teams. You may submit your code via Teams or on GitHub.
