13dtc/programming/index.md, before:

---
title: Programming
---

# Course

1. [1️⃣ Set up your development environment](01.setup)
2. [🐍 Recap](02.recap)
    - revise Python from 12DTC
    - loops, conditions, variables, constants
    - 2D lists, dictionaries, functions
3. [ℹ️ Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming](03.introduction-to-oop)
    - learn what object-oriented programming (OOP) means
    - what benefit OOP offers
4. [📝 Members and Properties](04.members-and-properties)
    - learn what class members and properties are
    - what benefits members and properties offer
    - how to declare and define members and properties
5. [🧪 Methods](05.methods)
    - learn what class methods are
    - how to declare methods
6. [📜 Classes I: Protocols](06.classes-01-protocols)
    - learn what protocols are used for
    - when and how to declare protocols
    - how to make classes conform to protocols
7. [👪 Classes II: Inheritance](07.classes-02-inheritance)
    - learn what inheritance is and what it is used for
    - what base classes, superclasses, and subclasses are
    - how to declare, define, and use subclasses

Commit message:

Added instructions for commiting to Github

13dtc/programming/index.md, after:

---
title: Programming
---

## Github

- [🎓 Set up Github Classroom](../../classroom/classroom.md)
- [🌍 Check out from/commit to Github](../../classroom/github.md)

## Course

1. [1️⃣ Set up your development environment](01.setup)
2. [🐍 Recap](02.recap)
    - revise Python from 12DTC
    - loops, conditions, variables, constants
    - 2D lists, dictionaries, functions
3. [ℹ️ Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming](03.introduction-to-oop)
    - learn what object-oriented programming (OOP) means
    - what benefit OOP offers
4. [📝 Members and Properties](04.members-and-properties)
    - learn what class members and properties are
    - what benefits members and properties offer
    - how to declare and define members and properties
5. [🧪 Methods](05.methods)
    - learn what class methods are
    - how to declare methods
6. [📜 Classes I: Protocols](06.classes-01-protocols)
    - learn what protocols are used for
    - when and how to declare protocols
    - how to make classes conform to protocols
7. [👪 Classes II: Inheritance](07.classes-02-inheritance)
    - learn what inheritance is and what it is used for
    - what base classes, superclasses, and subclasses are
    - how to declare, define, and use subclasses
