13dtc/programming/methods.md, before:

---
title:  Methods
---

## Learning intentions

You will learn:

- what a method is
  - when you should use one
  - how to declare an instance method

### Success criteria

You will know that you have completed the learning when:

- you have declared an instance method
- you have used an instance method on an object instance
- completed the [methods task](#task)

# What is a method?

In object-oriented programming, a **method** is a function that is attached to a class/object. Typically, methods operate on members stored within the class/object.

Methods exist in opposition to **free functions** which is what you have learnt so far. Free functions are not declared as part of a class.

## Examples

To explain methods, let's use an example: animals making sounds. Imagine we have a ``Duck`` class.

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    animal_sound = "Quack"
```

Suppose we have an instance of the ``Duck`` class and we want to make it quack. You could use a free function, ``print()``, like so:

```python
my_duck = Duck()
print(my_duck.animal_sound) # Quack
```

However, we can associate a function with the class that prints the message out for us. Here is the ``make_sound()`` method:

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    animal_sound = "Quack"

    def make_sound(self):
        print(self.animal_sound)

my_duck = Duck()
duck.make_sound() # Quack
```

### A special argument: ``self``

Notice the method's declaration. It accepts an argument, ``self``. Furthermore, ``self`` is used within the method definition.

The ``self`` argument is a reference to the object itself. It is how you can refer to other members or methods within the object.

## Properties are functions

Just the same as functions, methods can:
1. modify members
2. accept arguments
3. return values

### Modify variables

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    animal_sound = "Quack"

    # 1. Modify variables
    def set_animal_sound(self, new_sound):
        self.animal_sound = new_sound

    # 2. Accept arguments
    def make_sound(self, number_of_times=1):
        print(self.animal_sound * number_of_times)

    # 3. Return values
    def first_letter_of_animal_sound(self):
        return self.animal_sound[0]
```

## Properties are methods

Did you notice that [properties](02.members-and-properties.md) are also methods? Let's add an ``animal_sound`` property for the ``Duck`` class:

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    _animal_sound = "Quack"

    @property
    def animal_sound(self):
        return self._animal_sound

    @property.setter
    def animal_sound(self, new_sound):
        self._animal_sound = new_sound
```

Notice that the properties also contain the reference to ``self`` in the method declarations.

# Task

Now it's your turn to create properties in a class!

1. [Accept this Github Classroom assignment](#task)
2. Open the repository in Visual Studio Code ([instructions here](/classroom/classroom.md))
3. Edit the code to pass the tests
4. [Commit and push your code to Github](/classroom/github.md) for autograding

Commit message:

Use new LI/SC include

13dtc/programming/methods.md, after:

---
title:  Methods
learning_intentions: ["What a method is", "How to declare an instance method"]
success_criteria: ["You have declared an instance method in a class", "You have called a method on an object"]
---

## Learning intentions

You will learn:

- what a method is
  - when you should use one
  - how to declare an instance method

### Success criteria

You will know that you have completed the learning when:

- you have declared an instance method
- you have used an instance method on an object instance
- completed the [methods task](#task)

# What is a method?

In object-oriented programming, a **method** is a function that is attached to a class/object. Typically, methods operate on members stored within the class/object.

Methods exist in opposition to **free functions** which is what you have learnt so far. Free functions are not declared as part of a class.

## Examples

To explain methods, let's use an example: animals making sounds. Imagine we have a ``Duck`` class.

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    animal_sound = "Quack"
```

Suppose we have an instance of the ``Duck`` class and we want to make it quack. You could use a free function, ``print()``, like so:

```python
my_duck = Duck()
print(my_duck.animal_sound) # Quack
```

However, we can associate a function with the class that prints the message out for us. Here is the ``make_sound()`` method:

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    animal_sound = "Quack"

    def make_sound(self):
        print(self.animal_sound)

my_duck = Duck()
duck.make_sound() # Quack
```

### A special argument: ``self``

Notice the method's declaration. It accepts an argument, ``self``. Furthermore, ``self`` is used within the method definition.

The ``self`` argument is a reference to the object itself. It is how you can refer to other members or methods within the object.

## Properties are functions

Just the same as functions, methods can:
1. modify members
2. accept arguments
3. return values

### Modify variables

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    animal_sound = "Quack"

    # 1. Modify variables
    def set_animal_sound(self, new_sound):
        self.animal_sound = new_sound

    # 2. Accept arguments
    def make_sound(self, number_of_times=1):
        print(self.animal_sound * number_of_times)

    # 3. Return values
    def first_letter_of_animal_sound(self):
        return self.animal_sound[0]
```

## Properties are methods

Did you notice that [properties](02.members-and-properties.md) are also methods? Let's add an ``animal_sound`` property for the ``Duck`` class:

```python
@dataclass
class Duck:
    _animal_sound = "Quack"

    @property
    def animal_sound(self):
        return self._animal_sound

    @property.setter
    def animal_sound(self, new_sound):
        self._animal_sound = new_sound
```

Notice that the properties also contain the reference to ``self`` in the method declarations.

{% include task.html task_code="potato" %}
