13dtc/programming/shop.md, before:

---
title: Kai UI
---

# Task

## Scenario

Onslow College is revamping the menu at the café. There will be a move to healthy options that reflect the diversity of the student body. This includes daily special items.

More importantly, students will be able to order food via an app loaded on computers placed all around the school. The order will be sent to the café for the students to collect at either interval or lunch time.

You will create the software for students to make orders.

## User interface

The interface should display the following:

- a list of products, divided by product category
- information about the products
    - whether it is vegetarian-friendly or has vegetarian options
    - whether it is vegan-friendly or has vegetarian options
    - whether it contains added sugar
    - the country of origin (for special items)
- the cost of the products
- the current day (which should be selectable) that shows the special item of the day

The interface will allow the user to do the following:

- add an item to their order
- remove an item from their order
- calculate the total cost of the order
- send the order to the café for processing

You may lay the interface out however you like.

## Object-oriented programming

You should create classes for the following aspects of the program:

- **Product**: contains the information about the product
- **ProductCategory**: contains the products by category
- **Order**: contains the contents of the order

Remember to create relevant properties, setters, and methods.

# Café information

## Products

All products are divided into three categories:

- sandwiches
- sushi
- drinks
- special items of the day

### Sandwiches

| Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Ham & egg sandwich | | | | $3.50 |
| Chicken mayo sandwich | | | | $3.50 |
| Egg sandwich | ✅ | | | $3.00 |
| Beef sandwich | | | | $3.80 |
| Salad sandwich | ✅ | ✅ | | $3.20

### Sushi

| Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Chicken (3pc) | | | | $4.50 |
| Tuna (3pc) | | | | $4.50 |
| Avocado sushi (3pc) | ✅ | ✅ | | $4.80 |
| Chicken rice bowl | | | | $5.50 |
| Vegetarian rice bowl | ✅ | ✅ | | $5.50 |

### Drinks

| Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Soda can | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $2.00 |
| Aloe vera drink | ✅ | | ✅ | $3.50 |
| Chocolate milk | | | ✅ | $3.50 |
| Water bottle | ✅ | ✅ | | $2.50 |
| Instant hot chocolate | ✅ | | ✅ | $1.50 |

### Special items of the day

The following items can only be ordered on specific days.

| Day | Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Monday | Kale moa | | | ✅ | $6.00 |
| Tuesday | Potjiekos | | | | $6.00 |
| Wednesday | Hangi | ✅ | ✅ | | $6.00 |
| Thursday | Paneer tikka masala | ✅ | | ✅ | $6.00 |
| Friday | Chow mein | ✅ | ✅ | | $6.00 |

Commit message:

Made clear that the classes are suggestions, not a rule

13dtc/programming/shop.md, after:

---
title: Kai UI
---

# Task

## Scenario

Onslow College is revamping the menu at the café. There will be a move to healthy options that reflect the diversity of the student body. This includes daily special items.

More importantly, students will be able to order food via an app loaded on computers placed all around the school. The order will be sent to the café for the students to collect at either interval or lunch time.

You will create the software for students to make orders.

## User interface

The interface should display the following:

- a list of products, divided by product category
- information about the products
    - whether it is vegetarian-friendly or has vegetarian options
    - whether it is vegan-friendly or has vegetarian options
    - whether it contains added sugar
    - the country of origin (for special items)
- the cost of the products
- the current day (which should be selectable) that shows the special item of the day

The interface will allow the user to do the following:

- add an item to their order
- remove an item from their order
- calculate the total cost of the order
- send the order to the café for processing

You may lay the interface out however you like.

## Object-oriented programming

Here are some ideas for classes you could include in your program:

- **Product**: contains the information about the product
- **ProductCategory**: contains the products by category
- **Stock**: contains which products/categories are available
- **Order**: contains the contents of each order

These are not **mandatory**, just suggestions!

Remember to create relevant properties, setters, and methods.

# Café information

## Products

All products are divided into three categories:

- sandwiches
- sushi
- drinks
- special items of the day

### Sandwiches

| Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Ham & egg sandwich | | | | $3.50 |
| Chicken mayo sandwich | | | | $3.50 |
| Egg sandwich | ✅ | | | $3.00 |
| Beef sandwich | | | | $3.80 |
| Salad sandwich | ✅ | ✅ | | $3.20

### Sushi

| Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Chicken (3pc) | | | | $4.50 |
| Tuna (3pc) | | | | $4.50 |
| Avocado sushi (3pc) | ✅ | ✅ | | $4.80 |
| Chicken rice bowl | | | | $5.50 |
| Vegetarian rice bowl | ✅ | ✅ | | $5.50 |

### Drinks

| Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Soda can | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | $2.00 |
| Aloe vera drink | ✅ | | ✅ | $3.50 |
| Chocolate milk | | | ✅ | $3.50 |
| Water bottle | ✅ | ✅ | | $2.50 |
| Instant hot chocolate | ✅ | | ✅ | $1.50 |

### Special items of the day

The following items can only be ordered on specific days.

| Day | Item | V option available | VG option available | Contains sugar | Price |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: | --: |
| Monday | Kale moa | | | ✅ | $6.00 |
| Tuesday | Potjiekos | | | | $6.00 |
| Wednesday | Hangi | ✅ | ✅ | | $6.00 |
| Thursday | Paneer tikka masala | ✅ | | ✅ | $6.00 |
| Friday | Chow mein | ✅ | ✅ | | $6.00 |
