---
title: 12DTC Project Assessment
---

| Standard | Name | Level | Int/Ext | Credits |
| :-- | :-- | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [AS91896](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91896.pdf) | Use advanced programming techniques to develop a computer program | 2 | Internal | 6 |
| [AS91897](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91897.pdf) | Use advanced processes to develop a digital technologies outcome | 2 | Internal | 6 |

# Explanation from the standards

## AS91896

| Achievement | Achievement with Merit | Achievement with Excellence |
| :-- | :-: | --: |
| Use advanced programming techniques to develop a computer program | Use advanced programming techniques to develop an informed computer program | Use advanced programming techniques to develop a refined computer program |

An advanced computer program:
- uses variables storing at least two types of data (e.g. numeric, text, Boolean)
- uses sequence, selection and iteration control structures
- takes input from a user, sensors, or other external source
- produces output
- uses two or more advanced programming techniques.

Examples of **advanced programming techniques** include:
- modifying data stored in collections (e.g. lists, arrays, dicionaries)
- storing multidimensional data in collections
- creating methods, functions, or procedures that use parameters an- or return values
- responding to events generated by a graphical user interface (GUI)
- using non-trivial string manipulation
- using additional non-core libraries

## AS91897

| Achievement | Achievement with Merit | Achievement with Excellence |
| :-- | :-: | --: |
| Use advanced processes to develop a digital technologies outcome | Use advanced processes to develop an informed digital technologies outcome | Use advanced processes to develop a refined digital technologies outcome |

Examples of project management and version control tools and techniques include:
- saving backup copies with a logical file naming system
- using collaboration tools
- using simple version control software applications
- using tools or systems to plan tasks and milestones
- adjusting key actions and tasks where appropriate

# Time allowance

This is a project based assessment.

While all work must be your own you are encouraged to do additional work in your own time.

There will be regular project check-ins to track your progress.
Your final submission is at the end of your last lesson on the school week ending Term 2.

There will be **NO** extensions.

# Problem statements

You are to select ONE of the problem statements to use in the development of your outcome.

## Option 1: Uncertain reward test

You will develop an educational game, on a topic of your choice, with an "uncertain reward". In other words, it should contain an element of chance — the player could win something or lose something at each step.

### Requirements

1. the program will ask a series of questions on the topic (for example, math questions)
2. the user will answer the question
3. if the user answers correctly, they receive points/gold/etc.
4. after each question, the program offers the user a chance to earn more points (i.e. an increasing multiplier, double points, or a Who Wants to be a Millionnaire-style tier system)
5. if the user answers the next question correctly, they receive their "uncertain reward"
6. if the user answers incorrectly, they do not receive their reward or even lose points

### Possible topics

- Onslow College values
- Maths basic facts
- Learn basic phrases in another language

## Option 2: RPG battle simulator

You will develop an RPG battle simulator that will educate the player on a topic of your choice.

The simulator will allow the player to a computer opponent. The format of the battle will be turn based with random elements included.

### Requirements

1. the thematic elements of the game must promote the educational topic of your choice (below)
2. a user should be able to make a decision about the sort of attack/weapon/etc. they will choose
3. the amount of damage for each successful attack (by both player and computer) will be determined by the selected attack, as well as a random component
4. the battle will continue until either the player's or computer's character is defeated
   - it may take several attacks for a player to be defeated
5. there must be at least five opponents to battle
6. if a user wins a battle, they are rewarded money
7. if a user loses a battle, the game is over
8. after each battle, the user must be offered a chance to purchase healing in exchange for money or continue

### Possible topics

- Dental Hygiene Simulator — fight plaque, tartar, and tooth decay
- Fenix Right: Student Mediator — help resolve arguments between students
- Pokémon Onslow Teal — battle your teachers' favourite Pokémon!
  - note: Doc's favourite is Gengar 👻

## Option 3: Interactive fiction

A text-based video game is a genre also known as "interactive fiction". This was very popular back in the 80s when there was an absence of video game graphics. Players relied on their imagination to "see" the game.

You will develop your own education text-based adventure game on a topic of your choice.

### Requirements

1. the thematic elements of the game must promote the educational topic that you have chosen
2. the game must include a stamina system
   - every few actions that the user takes should deplete the user's stamina
   - specific actions and/or items can replenish the user's stamina
   - if the user runs out of stamina, the game is over
3. the game must have a well-defined victory condition
   - what must happen for the game to be "won"?
   - what steps must occur for this to happen?
   - what could go wrong for the player?
4. the game must include a 5x5 grid to walk around
    - the grid tiles could represent locations
    - certain tiles could contain items/dangers

### Possible topics

- Maui and the Great Fish — guide Maui from Hawaiki to fishing up Aotearoa
- [Locate the Lost LEGO](https://news.sky.com/story/lego-lost-at-sea-how-a-search-for-five-million-figurines-lost-off-the-coast-of-cornwall-in-1997-uncovered-an-underwater-world-of-plastic-toys-12531058) — teach users about how things turn from toys to pollution by cleaning up the ocean
- Where in Onslow College is Irene Indiana? — follow the clues found in each classroom to locate a missing student

{% include task.html task_code="potato" %}

# Restrictions

You must:
- use a suitable, text-based programming language
  - You will be expected to use Python unless you have consulted with your teacher

You may:
- consult this website's notes
- consult your previous work
- consult with other students for advice and ideas

However, you may **not**:
- copy other students' work, even with modifications
- copy code online without proper attribution
- ask other students to fix errors for you
- present any content as your own work

# Submission

- Your work will be submitted through GitHub Classrooms
- Only the final commit before the due date will be considered — any commits after the due date will not be assessed