12dtc/projman/index.md, before:

---
title: Project Management
hide_toc: true
layout: contents
---

In Project Management, you will work on a project to design and develop a program. This unit will be assessed based on the following standard:

* Internal assessments (7 credits)
    * [**AS91897**: Use advanced processes to develop a digital technologies outcome](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91897.pdf) (6 credits)

The standard requires you to produce a lot of documentation. It is important that you keep all of the work that you do for this unit together. Please make sure that **OneDrive** is installed on your computer, running, and connected to your Onslow College account.

> If you lose access to your work because you saved it on a school computer and did not save it to OneDrive, **YOU WILL NOT BE GIVEN AN EXTENSION**!

## The Task

| <img width=500 /> | <img width=500 /> | <img width=500 /> |
| :--: | :-: | :-: |
| <a href="task"><image src="/img/assessment.svg" title="The Task" width=100><br>The Task |

### Required resources

- [Project Management Portfolio](https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/12DTC2022/EdVOjaHd1HpLjp-Acc4Ii_EBcT-BNCVS5nxC-MnqTmRiJg?e=deHKyK)

Commit message:

Convert projman index to YAML format

12dtc/projman/index.md, after:

---
title: Project Management
layout: auto_contents
preamble: |
  In Project Management, you will work on a project to design and develop a program. This unit will be assessed based on the following standard:
  
  * Internal assessments (7 credits)
      * [**AS91897**: Use advanced processes to develop a digital technologies outcome](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91897.pdf) (6 credits)
  
  The standard requires you to produce a lot of documentation. It is important that you keep all of the work that you do for this unit together. Please make sure that **OneDrive** is installed on your computer, running, and connected to your Onslow College account.

  > If you lose access to your work because you saved it on a school computer and did not save it to OneDrive, **YOU WILL NOT BE GIVEN AN EXTENSION**!

  <br>
categories:
  - projman:
    category_name: Project management
    category_items:
      - the_task:
        item_name: The Task
        item_desc: An explanation of the standard and task for Term 2 and 3
        item_icon: /img/projman.svg
        item_page: task
      - resources:
        item_desc: <a href="https://onslowcollege.sharepoint.com/:w:/s/12DTC2022/EdVOjaHd1HpLjp-Acc4Ii_EBcT-BNCVS5nxC-MnqTmRiJg?e=deHKyK">Download a copy of the portfolio document</a>
---
