11dit/index.md, before:

---
title: 11DIT
layout: auto_contents
has_children: true
categories:
  - units:
    category_name: Units
    category_items:
      - programming:
        item_name: Programming
        item_desc: Introduction to Python, lists, and basic functions
        item_icon: 🐍
        item_page: /11dit/programming
      - design:
        item_name: Design
        item_desc: Learn the process to design and build a website
        item_icon: 🧑‍🎨
        item_page: /11dit/design
      - hci:
        item_name: Human Computer Interaction
        item_desc: External — how do people use computers?
        item_icon: 🚪
        item_page: /11dit/hci
---

# Learning objectives

## Develop a computer program
- writing code for a program that performs a specified task using a suitable
programming language
    - in this course, we will be teaching Python 3.10 and higher
- setting out the program code clearly
- documenting the program with comments
- documenting the program with variable names and comments that describe code
function and behaviour
- following conventions for the chosen programming language (PEP-8)
- comprehensively testing and debugging the program to ensure that it works on a sample of expected cases, relevant boundary cases, and handles invalid cases
- ensuring that the program is a well-structured, logical response to the task
- making the program flexible and robust

## Develop a design for a digital media outcome

- defining the purpose and end users for the digital outcome
- researching and generating a range of design ideas
- selecting a chosen design and describing the appropriateness of that chosen design
- using feedback to improve the design
- describing relevant implications and explaining how the design meets them
- justifying, with evidence, that the chosen design is suitable for the purpose and end users

## Develop a digital media outcome

- using appropriate tools, techniques, and design elements for the purpose and end users
- applying appropriate data integrity and testing procedures in the development of the outcome
- using information from testing procedures to improve the quality and functionality of the outcome
- describing and addressing relevant implications
- showing iterative improvement througout the design, development, and testing process
- applying design elements effectively

# Standards

* Programming (3 credits)
    * [**AS91883**: Develop a computer program](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91883.pdf) (3 credits)
* Design & Digital Media (7 credits)
    * [**AS91878**: Develop a design for a digital outcome](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91878.pdf) (3 credits)
    * [**AS91880**: Develop a digital media outcome](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91880.pdf) (4 credits)
* External assessments (3 credits)
    * [**AS91886**: Demonstrate understanding of human computer interaction](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91886.pdf) (3 credits)

Commit message:

Add database course and skeleton pages

11dit/index.md, after:

---
title: 11DIT
layout: auto_contents
has_children: true
categories:
  - units:
    category_name: Units
    category_items:
      - database:
        item_name: Database
        item_desc: Introduction to databases
        item_icon: 💾
        item_page: database
      - programming:
        item_name: Programming
        item_desc: Introduction to Python, lists, and basic functions
        item_icon: 🐍
        item_page: programming
      - design:
        item_name: Web Design
        item_desc: Learn the process to design and build a website
        item_icon: 🧑‍🎨
        item_page: design
      - hci:
        item_name: Human Computer Interaction
        item_desc: External — how do people use computers?
        item_icon: 🚪
        item_page: hci
---

# Learning objectives

## Develop a digital outcome to manage data

- using appropriate tools and techniques to structure, organise, query and present data for a purpose and end user 
- applying appropriate data integrity and testing procedures 
- describing relevant implications. 
- using information from testing procedures to improve the quality and functionality of the outcome 
- structuring, organising and querying the data logically 
- addressing relevant implications. 
- iterative improvement throughout the development and testing process 
- presenting the data effectively for the purpose and to meet end-user requirements

## Develop a computer program

- writing code for a program that performs a specified task using a suitable
programming language
    - in this course, we will be teaching Python 3.10 and higher
- setting out the program code clearly
- documenting the program with comments
- documenting the program with variable names and comments that describe code
function and behaviour
- following conventions for the chosen programming language (PEP-8)
- comprehensively testing and debugging the program to ensure that it works on a sample of expected cases, relevant boundary cases, and handles invalid cases
- ensuring that the program is a well-structured, logical response to the task
- making the program flexible and robust

## Develop a design for a digital media outcome

- defining the purpose and end users for the digital outcome
- researching and generating a range of design ideas
- selecting a chosen design and describing the appropriateness of that chosen design
- using feedback to improve the design
- describing relevant implications and explaining how the design meets them
- justifying, with evidence, that the chosen design is suitable for the purpose and end users

## Develop a digital media outcome

- using appropriate tools, techniques, and design elements for the purpose and end users
- applying appropriate data integrity and testing procedures in the development of the outcome
- using information from testing procedures to improve the quality and functionality of the outcome
- describing and addressing relevant implications
- showing iterative improvement througout the design, development, and testing process
- applying design elements effectively

# Standards

- Database (4 credits)
  - [**AS91879**: Develop a digital technologies outcome to manage data](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91879.pdf) (4 credits)
- Programming (3 credits)
  - [**AS91883**: Develop a computer program](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91883.pdf) (3 credits)
- Design & Digital Media (7 credits)
  - [**AS91878**: Develop a design for a digital outcome](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91878.pdf) (3 credits)
  - [**AS91880**: Develop a digital media outcome](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91880.pdf) (4 credits)
- External assessments (3 credits)
  - [**AS91886**: Demonstrate understanding of human computer interaction](https://www.nzqa.govt.nz/nqfdocs/ncea-resource/achievements/2019/as91886.pdf) (3 credits)
